Oracle/MySQL OCP 考试 
模拟题

GTID
 delay
slave worker
 
分区
 
INFORMATION_SCHEMA
     SQL优化     
 
INNODB
 
mysql客户端程序
     mysqldump
     mysql_config_editor
     mysqladmin
 
mysql audit plugin
 
Query Cache
    
binary log 管理和使用
 
auto increment lock
 
 
MySQL security Plugin
 
字符集
 
SQL优化
     利用index
     
 
HA solution
 
Memory storage engine
 
FLUSH LOGS
 
BACKUP 
     MyISAM
     INNODB
 
LOCK TABLES
 
slow log
 
thread memory
 
MyISAM
 
explain



想要系统地学习MySQL，业界最好的MySQL培训，一线互联网公司实战与架构分享。
MySQL OCP题库、面试简历与机经的介绍。


Oracle MySQL 5.6 Certification with Study Guide

What is MySQL 5.6 Certification?
The new release of MySQL 5.6 is designed for professionals involved in writing applications with the MySQL database server. The new version of MySQL is focused on increased speed, security, replication, and optimization.

Skills Required for Certification
To appear for this Certification, a candidate must have prior knowledge of

MySQL 5
MySQL Server
Performing database backups
Setting up replication and security
Protecting MySQL databases
Performance Tuning
Exam name	MySQL 5.6 Certified Developer, Oracle Certified Professional	MySQL 5.6 Certified Database Administrator, Oracle Certified Professional
Exam number	1Z0-882	1Z0-883
Eligibility	Oracle Certified Associate	Oracle Certified Associate
Target audience	developers creating applications that use MySQL as the database engine	database administrators for MySQL server
Exam Cost	$245	$245
Exam questions	86 Multiple Choice Questions	100 Multiple Choice Questions
Exam duration	150 Minutes	150 Minutes
Passing Mark	61%	60%

Take the Test when you're ready - Buy Exam Voucher
Purchase an exam voucher now and redeem it within 6 months - it's like a gift card.

Schedule Your Exam Now
If you're ready to take your exam, schedule it now and pay directly with a credit card, or redeem a voucher you have purchased
from Oracle. Either way, you'll schedule it through our external testing provider, PearsonVue.

After The Exam
Within 30 minutes of completing your Oracle Certification exam, you will receive an email from Oracle notifying you that your 
exam results are available in CertView. If you have previously authenticated your CertView account, simply login and select the
option to "See My New Exam Result Now". If you have not authenticated your CertView account at this point, you will need to 
proceed with your account authentication .

Authentication requires an Oracle Single Sign On username and password and the following is your Pearson VUE 
profile: email address and Oracle Testing ID. You want to be logged into CertView to log in once your account has been authenticated.

