SQL Tuning: Generating Optimal Execution Plans

A poorly performing database application not only costs users time, but also has an impact on other applications running on
the same computer or the same network. SQL Tuning provides an essential next step for SQL developers and database administrators 
who want to extend their SQL tuning expertise and get the most from their database applications.There are two basic issues to focus 
on when tuning SQL: how to find and interpret the execution plan of an SQL statement and how to change SQL to get a specific 
alternate execution plan. SQL Tuning provides answers to these questions and addresses a third issue that's even more important: 
how to find the optimal execution plan for the query to use.Author Dan Tow outlines a timesaving method he's developed for finding 
the optimum execution plan--rapidly and systematically--regardless of the complexity of the SQL or the database platform being used. 
You'll learn how to understand and control SQL execution plans and how to diagram SQL queries to deduce the best execution plan for 
a query. Key chapters in the book include exercises to reinforce the concepts you've learned. SQL Tuning concludes by addressing 
special concerns and unique solutions to "unsolvable problems."Whether you are a programmer who develops SQL-based applications or
a database administrator or other who troubleshoots poorly tuned applications, SQL Tuning will arm you with a reliable and deterministic 
method for tuning your SQL queries to gain optimal performance.





High Performance MySQL: Optimization, Backups, and Replication

How can you bring out MySQL’s full power? With High Performance MySQL, you’ll learn advanced techniques for everything from 
designing schemas, indexes, and queries to tuning your MySQL server, operating system, and hardware to their fullest potential.
This guide also teaches you safe and practical ways to scale applications through replication, load balancing, high availability, 
and failover.

Updated to reflect recent advances in MySQL and InnoDB performance, features, and tools, this third edition not only offers
specific examples of how MySQL works, it also teaches you why this system works as it does, with illustrative stories and case
studies that demonstrate MySQL’s principles in action. With this book, you’ll learn how to think in MySQL.

Learn the effects of new features in MySQL 5.5, including stored procedures, partitioned databases, triggers, and views
Implement improvements in replication, high availability, and clustering
Achieve high performance when running MySQL in the cloud
Optimize advanced querying features, such as full-text searches
Take advantage of modern multi-core CPUs and solid-state disks
Explore backup and recovery strategies—including new tools for hot online backups
